5
General Introduction: 
Understanding the state of your infrastructure and systems is essential for ensuring the reliability and stability of your services. Information about the health and performance of your deployments not only helps your team react to issues, it also gives them the security to make changes with confidence. One of the best ways to gain this insight is with a robust monitoring system that gathers metrics, visualizes data, and alerts operators when things appear to be broken. 
Metrics, monitoring, and alerting are all interrelated concepts that together form the basis of a monitoring system. They have the ability to provide visibility into the health of your systems, help you understand trends in usage or behavior, and to understand the impact of changes you make. If the metrics fall outside of your expected ranges, these systems can send notifications to prompt an operator to take a look, and can then assist in surfacing information to help identify the possible causes. 
While metrics represent the data in your system, monitoring is the process of collecting, aggregating, and analyzing those values to improve awareness of your Components’ characteristics and behavior. The data from various parts of your environment are collected into a monitoring system that is responsible for storage, aggregation, visualization, and initiating automated responses when the values meet specific requirements. 
Monitoring systems  responsibility is to accept and store incoming and historical data, values representing the current point in time are useful, it is more helpful to view those numbers in relation to past values to provide context around changes and trends. This means that a monitoring system should be capable of managing data over periods of time, which may involve sampling or aggregating older data. While metrics can be displayed and understood as individual values or tables, humans are much better at recognizing trends and understanding how components fit together when information is organized in a visually meaningful way. Monitoring systems usually represent the components they measure with configurable graphs and dashboards. This makes it possible to understand the interaction of complex variables or changes within a system by glancing at a display. 
An other additional function that monitoring systems provide is organizing and correlating data from various inputs. For the metrics to be useful, administrators need to be able to recognize patterns between different resources and across groups of servers.  
However In modern datacenter networks (DCNs), failures of infrastructure devices are the norm rather than the exception, and many research efforts have focused on dealing with failures after they happen.  
In this poject, we take a different approach by predicting failures, thus the operators can intervene and fix the potential failures before they happen.  We aim to determine during runtime whether a device failure will happen in the near future. The prediction is based on the measurements of the current devices system status and historical  hardware failure cases that have been carefully labelled by network operators using the old data collection offered by the used  monitoring system 
This approach is based on modernized tecnique such as Devops,GitOps,SysOps,AiOps to deliver  a solutioon ready to deploy  in cloud native edge infrastructure. 
 
 
Bibliography: 
 
 
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-metrics-monitoring-and-alerting 
 
 
PreFix: Switch Failure Prediction in Datacenter Networks : Proc. ACM Meas. Anal. Comput. Syst., Vol. 2, No. 1, Article 2. Publication date : March 2018 


































































































































































